README.md, before:

# :rocket: MERN authentication with email verification and docker (prod/dev).

![capture du 2018-12-16 13-57-42](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40322270/50053751-aa653080-013a-11e9-9a8d-35a55c9042f1.png)

:video_game: Demo: https://mern-auth-client.herokuapp.com/login

:warning: CSS styles, Google Captcha, Sentry usage and some other not essential dependencies like notifications are only in the demo. This repositorie aim to have a fast to use boilerplate.

## :star: The project if it helped you!

# :whale: Docker

Boilerplate now is fully usable with docker, it integrate the MongoDB database, the React/Redux frontend and NodeJS/Express backend.

If you do not have docker: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/

Docker allows to deloy the app in docker containers in one line in the CLI.

## Environment variables

In both docker-compose.yml and docker-compose-prod.yml file you have to set the following environment variables:

- SENDGRID_API_KEY, the backend uses Send Grid to send emails, you can register and get a free key on their website: https://sendgrid.com/. :warning: You cannot use the app without a key. Validation links are sent in http not https, you can modified that in server/routes/auth.js if you want to go https in deployment.

- SESSION_KEY, it is the secret key that is used to compute the hash of sessions. It is important to use a strong key: https://cloud.google.com/network-connectivity/docs/vpn/how-to/generating-pre-shared-key.

## Development

in the root directory:

`docker-compose up --build`

It supports hot reloading for both the frontend and backend.

## Production

in the root directory:

`docker-compose -f docker-compose-prod.yml up --build`

Frontend app uses an Nginx server to deliver static files.

You may want to use the flag `--remove-orphans`

To deploy on Heroku refer to their documentation:
https://devcenter.heroku.com/categories/deploying-with-docker

## :computer: Boilerplate

MERN Stack with advanced authentication :

- Email verification (Token Based) with resend/reset option, Login with forgot password feature.

- Server side sessions.

- Docker for development and production with hot reloading.

- Mongodb.

- Express.

- React/Redux based on Create React App.

- Nodejs.

- Passport-js local.

- Sendgrid API for emails.

## To Do List

- Rewrite frontend with Hooks and functionnal components.
- Remove unwanted inheritance from classes.
- Make css minimalist for better boilerplate.
- Extract email templates into seperate folder.

## Changelog

### 07/09/2020:

- Updated all dependencies for server and client.
- Added docker for development with hot reloading and production with nginx for the frontend. MongoDB in docker as well.
- Fixed missing error catching,
- Change naming of folder structure of components on client.
- Reworked get user logic for immutability.
- Removed unused dependencies.

### 28/04/2019:

- Huge simplification of the project for better usability as a boilerplate (CSS styles, Google Captcha, Sentry usage...).

Commit message:

update(README.md) - Todos, Security section, emojis

README.md, after:

# :rocket: MERN authentication with email verification and docker (prod/dev).

![capture du 2018-12-16 13-57-42](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40322270/50053751-aa653080-013a-11e9-9a8d-35a55c9042f1.png)

:video_game: Demo: https://mern-auth-client.herokuapp.com/login

:warning: CSS styles, Google Captcha, Sentry usage and some other not essential dependencies like notifications are only in the demo. This repositorie aim to have a fast to use boilerplate.

## :star: The project if it helped you!

# :whale: Docker

Boilerplate now is fully usable with docker, it integrate the MongoDB database, the React/Redux frontend and NodeJS/Express backend.

If you do not have docker: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/

Docker allows to deloy the app in docker containers in one line in the CLI.

## Environment variables

In both docker-compose.yml and docker-compose-prod.yml file you have to set the following environment variables:

- SENDGRID_API_KEY, the backend uses Send Grid to send emails, you can register and get a free key on their website: https://sendgrid.com/. :warning: You cannot use the app without a key. Validation links are sent in http not https, you can modified that in server/routes/auth.js if you want to go https in deployment.

- SESSION_KEY, it is the secret key that is used to compute the hash of sessions. It is important to use a strong key: https://cloud.google.com/network-connectivity/docs/vpn/how-to/generating-pre-shared-key.

## Development

in the root directory:

`docker-compose up --build`

It supports hot reloading for both the frontend and backend.

## Production

in the root directory:

`docker-compose -f docker-compose-prod.yml up --build`

Frontend app uses an Nginx server to deliver static files.

You may want to use the flag `--remove-orphans`

To deploy on Heroku refer to their documentation:
https://devcenter.heroku.com/categories/deploying-with-docker

## :computer: Boilerplate

MERN Stack with advanced authentication :

- Email verification (Token Based) with resend/reset option, Login with forgot password feature.

- Server side sessions.

- Docker for development and production with hot reloading.

- Mongodb.

- Express.

- React/Redux based on Create React App.

- Nodejs.

- Passport-js local.

- Sendgrid API for emails.

## :lock: Security

This repository is scanned with snyk and code scanning from github for vulnerabilities. Do not use this code blindly, audit it first.

## :construction: To Do List

- Rewrite frontend with Hooks and functionnal components.
- Remove unwanted inheritance from classes.
- Make css minimalist for better boilerplate.
- Extract email templates into seperate folder.
- Option for email verification ?
- Google/Facebook Oauth.
- Test coverage with cypress.
- Rate limitation on endpoints.
- CSRF protection.

## :information_source: Changelog

### 07/09/2020:

- Updated all dependencies for server and client.
- Added docker for development with hot reloading and production with nginx for the frontend. MongoDB in docker as well.
- Fixed missing error catching,
- Change naming of folder structure of components on client.
- Reworked get user logic for immutability.
- Removed unused dependencies.

### 28/04/2019:

- Huge simplification of the project for better usability as a boilerplate (CSS styles, Google Captcha, Sentry usage...).
